The carpal tunnel is a narrow,
passageway made of a ligament and bones
on the palm side of your wrist.
It protects the tendons that bend your fingers
and the median nerve,
which run from your forearm into your hand.
The median nerve provides
sensation to your thumb;
index and middle fingers;
and the inside half of your ring finger.
It also provides signals that enable
the fingers and thumb to move.
Carpal tunnel syndrome is a condition that
causes numbness, tingling and pain
in the hand and forearm.
This condition happens
when the median nerve is
compressed or squeezed
as it passes through the carpal tunnel.
The pressure can result from anything that
reduces space for the nerves in the carpal tunnel
For example, the lining of the tunnel
may swell if it becomes inflamed.
Or the tendons may become swollen.
And some people have a tunnel
that is narrower than normal.
Treatment may include rest,
ice, wrist splints,
cortisone injections
and surgery.